[Music]
an empty train that travels between two
small towns every single day sounds like
something out of The Twilight Zone
unless you live in the UK where ghost
trains have been running for years we'll
be departing shortly enjoy your ride
[Music]
from Monday through Saturday at 5:16
p.m. a train takes off from Leeds and
heads for the small English town of
Snape at first the cars will be
jam-packed with people
the usual rush hour of a decent sized
city like leans but with each stop along
the way you'll notice fewer and fewer
passengers on the train once you get to
the final stop 55 minutes later there
will be no one else besides you you get
off the train at a station that's
equally as deserted there are no vending
machines or ticket offices no parking
lots no taxis it's as if time has Stood
Still it's quiet an earring you need to
buy a return ticket in advance since you
can't get one in the station without
personnel but you can only go back to
Leeds at 7:01 p.m. or 716 a.m. the next
day
looks like you had two choices when you
booked this exciting journey to snake
spend a mere 50 minutes hanging out in
town and make the 701 tray or stay for
the night and leave in the morning
hope you found a motel there hey how
many ghost trains are there in the UK
first let's establish one thing the term
ghost train doesn't officially exist
it's not like you can go on some website
and type in two tickets for a ghost
train and ghost doesn't mean they're
haunted or anything
although stick around to the end and
I'll tell you about a real ghost train
anyway these empty trains are listed in
all documents as ordinary trains so
there's no way to know how
there are two find them you need to
search timetables for routes that trains
travel no more than twice a day and
their schedule is almost always
incredibly inconvenient departures just
before dawn and sometimes no return
train at all and unlike the daily albeit
infrequent lead Snaith journey some
ghost trains run only once a week not
all ticket sellers are even aware of
such routes if you find a ghost train
full of people there most likely
adventure seekers like you that or there
the ghost station hunters doesn't
exactly have the same ring to it as
Ghost Busters but still an interesting
way to spend your time Tim Hall Smith
and Liz Murali are passionate about
ghost trains over the past twenty five
plus years they've been to almost 50
ghost stations is that an impressive
number or just a drop in the bucket
again hard to say we don't know how many
stations there are still the dynamic duo
takes pictures at each of the stations
and gets a kick out of surprising the
train guard each time they ask to get
off at some station that probably hasn't
seen a traveler in months or even years
now does ghost train hunting sound like
something you'd be interested in will
you knock that off okay now why are the
trains empty the use of passenger trains
has almost doubled since 1995 more
travelers are writing longer distances
yet the number of trains hasn't gone up
that much what does that mean there
should be a ton of congestion you know
writing elbow-to-elbow and stepping on
people's feet sorry so how is it
possible that ghost trains exist
well most of the final stop stations are
far from town for example the one where
Tim the ghost station man celebrated his
50th birthday was more than three miles
from a road and the nearest building was
an old mill in other words go stations
are primarily in ghost towns most
passengers have already hopped off by
the time the train gets to the final
stop because well nobody lives there
then why keep them running surprisingly
it's more profitable for rail companies
to keep ghost trains running than to
close them to shut down any route they
first have to figure out how this
closure will affect passengers the
transport environment and the economy
they send the results of this research
to the Department for Transport and the
media six months before the proposed
closure add to all that a bunch of
bureaucracy public events hearings
voting consultations and other
complicated procedures that require a
lot of time and effort why do that when
you can safely run a train even if it's
usually empty once a week and have
nothing to worry about
make sense hope for the future there is
a more positive reason why these trains
continue to run the hope that these
lines will get busier just imagine that
you're a major rail company and you've
spent all this time and effort closing a
route but then some faraway town or
village starts building houses malls
infrastructure and other facilities not
far from your NGO station
what then again examinations reports
training new staff and updating the
track since you stopped using them and
they most likely need a remodel it's
just not worth the risk
especially when you have cities getting
overcrowded and people looking to move
further away from the hustle and bustle
sometimes it's easier and cheaper to
leave things as they are than to start
all over from scratch rebirth
so is that hope for a revival of old
ghost lines worth keeping sure some
roots are already seeing increased
activity for example there's the halt
and curve a tiny stretch connecting the
two tracks with regular trains between
North Wales and Liverpool the route was
never closed but it did need some
restoration about ten and a half million
pounds worth to be precise and the
Halton curve is just the beginning the
number of passengers will increase and
ghost trains will likely become fewer
and fewer how about in other countries
yes ghost trains are a common thing for
UK residents
much more than in most other countries
elsewhere an empty train can seriously
scare passengers that's exactly what
happened in 2016 in Belgium travellers
waiting on the platform witnessed a
train without a driver and passengers
slowly passing through stations rumors
about a real ghost train instantly began
to spread but the truth was far from the
paranormal not only after an empty train
departed for the city of Leuven the
driver noticed a malfunction he stopped
the train and got out of the cab to
investigate but for some reason the
Train took off on its own something
that's unprecedented without the driver
he couldn't get back in the cabin and
the machine just kept going fortunately
it all ended well despite being pretty
cinematic the driver warned his
co-workers about the runaway train so
the passengers at upcoming stations were
evacuated the Train rode seven and a
half miles until another driver jumped
onto the moving cab and was able to stop
it happy ending
the real ghost train and now as promised
the most famous and mysterious legend
about a ghost train it happened in the
summer of 1911 an Italian rail company
called Zen netting sent a small tourist
train with about a hundred passengers to
travel around the country the trip was
going fine until the train drove into a
mountain tunnel in lombardi a northern
region of Italy it entered the tunnel
but never made it out the other side
apparently as the train approached the
mountain a thick white fog suddenly
surrounded it panic started in the car
and that's when two quick-thinking
passengers decided to jump out at the
last minute the tunnel was thoroughly
investigated there weren't any signs of
a crash there wasn't a shred of evidence
a train had entered it it's as if it
just disappeared right there at the
entrance after that the tunnel was
closed off and then completely destroyed
but it doesn't end there
the mysterious disappearance of the
Zanetti train was almost forgotten when
30 years later new evidence surfaced on
the other side of the planet
apparently 100 Italian citizens showed
up out of nowhere in Mexico City and
were admitted to a hospital for shocked
they were strangely dressed as if they
were from the past not only that people
from different parts of the world
reported that they'd seen the ghost
train of course all these rumors aren't
confirmed and it could simply be an
urban legend I guess we'll never know of
course we know it is an urban legend but
it's kind of a cool story hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life